# 2025-Canadian-Federal-Election

Canada is a large country with a lot of diversity. Voting patterns in Canada are not uniform across groups of people. Some groups are more likely to vote for a particular political party than other groups. Furthermore, different parts of the country exhibit different voting patterns. For example, Alberta is infamous for for its loyalty to the Conservative Party of Canada, but the CPC’s performace in Quebec is usually lacklustre compared to other parties. Investigating these patterns is crucial for parties to allocate their campaigning resources come election time. They are also crucial for us to investigate as a whole, as it helps us understand how the parties that govern us can improve their policies to better suit particular groups. We have datasets that include a shape file for electoral districts under the 2023 federal electoral boundaries, voting results for the 2025 federal elections, and 2021 census data for these electoral districts. The research goal of this project is to analyze the effect of certain features on vote share of the three major parties in the 2025 federal election: Liberal Party of Canada (LPC), Conservative Party of Canada (CPC) and the New
Democratic Party (NDP). I want to analyze the demographics the parties enjoyed support from in the most recent election and compare the electoral performance with certain groups across the three major parties.

After some spatial exploratory analysis, I used spatial regression models to analyze the vote shares for each of the three major parties. The HTML report can be found []
